Adding documentation for the usages report (#156)
moderneinc/moderne-docs: docs/user-documentation/moderne-platform/how-to-guides/reporting.md

---
description: Instructions for downloading reports
---

# Reporting

## Overview

> Moderne offers some reports:
> 
> * **Usage by organization** - every recipe run and associated commit by every user for a specific organization. The generated report combines the commit and recipe run reports. This report includes
> the recipe name, time saved, user that ran it, recipe, as well as various statistics of the recipe run. If any commit was created in association with the recipe run details
> of the commit are included: the type of commit, status of the commit job, as well as other statistics of the commit job.

Reviewer: You immediately go from this section into the "usage by organization" report section, which has less detail in it than these lines. I would rather more detail in the "usage by organization" report section.

Maybe something like this:

```suggestion
Moderne offers the following report:

* **Usage by organization** - every recipe run, associated commit, and time saved by every user for a specific organization. 
```

Then put this detail:

> The generated report combines the commit and recipe run reports. This report includes
the recipe name, time saved, user that ran it, recipe, as well as various statistics of the recipe run. If any commit was created in association with the recipe run details
of the commit are included: the type of commit, status of the commit job, as well as other statistics of the commit job.

below in the report detail section.

Author: I move the details further down, I also did some rewording.

> ## Usages by organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Usage by organization
```

> The usages report is accessible from `https://<TENANT>.moderne.io/devcenter/{organization}`

Reviewer: Here is where I would put the detail from above.

```suggestion
The usage report is accessible from `https://<TENANT>.moderne.io/devcenter/{organization}`
```

## Accessing via the API

All of these reports can be accessed via the API as well. Here is an example of how to prepare and download the usage report:

```graphql
mutation firstGenerateUsageReport($until: DateTime!, $since:DateTime!, $organizationId: String) {
    downloadUsageReport(until: $until, since: $since , organizationId:$organizationId) {
        id
    }
}
```

```json
{
  "since": "2024-10-29T10:15:30Z",
  "until":"2024-12-30T10:15:30Z",
  "organizationId":"my_organization_Id"
}
```

```graphql
query secondDownloadUsageReport($id: ID!) {
    usageReportDownload(id: $id) {
        id
        state
        stateMessage
        url
        fileSize
    }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Can you share a screenshot of how this appears? In other places in the docs we have tabs for graphql and variables.

Also I would rename "firstDownloadUsageReport" and "secondDownloadUsageReport" into "downloadUsageReport" and "usageReportDownload" to match the names of the queries.

Author: I update this to use tabs, this is what it will look like 

<img width="1032" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-06 at 2 26 17 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c09fa029-17c2-4026-b0df-6d563736cbdc">
<img width="1020" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-06 at 2 26 22 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/aa7c2f89-3998-450d-bc62-69931fc99df7">

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Reporting

## Overview

> Moderne offers some reports:

Reviewer 2: Do we offer more than one report for general users? Are we going to be adding more? It feels a bit strange to me to say we offer some reports and then just list one. 

Also - why would a user want to run this report? This seems like an administrative thing but maybe I'm misunderstanding something.

Author: I don't think we have any plans to add more reports, but we could. I wanted to make the document so that it would be easy to add a new report.

I split it out of the admin page because it doesn't require admin permissions. I suspect the reasons to run it as a none admin or an admin are very similar

* **Usage by organization** - every recipe run and associated commit by every user for a specific organization. 

> ## Usage by organization
> The generated report includes every recipe run and associated commit for a given organization. This report includes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Usage by organization

The generated report includes every recipe run and associated commit for a given organization. This report includes
```

the recipe name, time saved, user that ran it, recipe, as well as various statistics of the recipe run. 

> If any commit was created in association with the recipe run details of the commit are included: the type of 

Reviewer 3: Can we add a comma here? `...with the recipe run, details of the commit ...`

And should it be `with the recipe run, details of the commit would include:` or similar?

Author: Mike made a good suggestion on how to reword this. I think it is a lot better now

> If any commit was created in association with the recipe run details of the commit are included: the type of 
> commit, status of the commit job, as well as other statistics of the commit job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If any commit was created in association with the recipe run, details of the commit are included (e.g., the type of 
commit or the status of the commit job).
```

> The usage report is accessible from `https://<TENANT>.moderne.io/devcenter/{organization}`

Author: This is how the image will be diplayed 
<img width="983" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-10 at 11 47 39 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8e47ed0a-e24e-4b5d-af00-71a22886ce14">

Author: Updated screenshot
<img width="1022" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-11 at 8 40 50 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fa039a8a-7ea9-4b27-8901-e14c09ab6722" />

> These reports can be downloaded using the download button: ![](./assets/usage-report-download.png)

Reviewer 2: Can we get a higher quality photo for this? It seems quite blurry to me. Maybe we can zoom in on the browser?

Author: Let me make a new one, I think this was my fault because I was doing some resizing
